# Upgrade guide for Scheduler v6.0.0

## New styling for the Grid header bottom border in timeline-based views

The bottom border styling of the Grid header was moved from the `.b-grid-header-container` element
to `.b-grid-headers` in non-timeline sub-grids and `.b-horizontaltimeaxis` in the timeline sub-grid.

**Old styling modifying the grid header:**

```css
.b-grid-header-container {
    border-bottom : none;
}
```

**New styling:**

```css
.b-scheduler:not(.b-sch-vertical) {
    .b-header:not(.b-grid-header-scroller-normal) .b-grid-headers,
    .b-horizontaltimeaxis {
        border-bottom : none;
    }
}
```

## The `context` and its nested params of `beforeEventResizeFinalize/eventPartialResize/eventResizeStart/eventResizeEnd` has been removed

Now instead of using `context` param you should use `resizeData` param:

**Old code**

```javascript
    listeners : {
        beforeEventResizeFinalize({ context }) {
            console.log(context.originalStartDate);
        }
    }
```

**New code**

```javascript
    listeners : {
        beforeEventResizeFinalize({ resizeData }) {
            console.log(resizeData[0].originalStartDate);
        }
    }
```

## Contextualized recurrence rules when setting a non-recurring or newly added event to have recurrence.

By default, the combo which offers selection of recurrence rules now creates an initial set
of recurrence rules based on the start day and date of the event you are editing.

So if it's on Thursday the 15th of October, the suggested recurrence rules will include:

* Weekly on Thursday
* Monthly on 15th
* Monthly on the third Thursday
* Yearly on 15th of October
* Yearly on the third Thursday of October

Options 1, 2, and 4 are the defaults for Weekly, Monthly and Yearly anyway. The two extra
options are just a suggestion in case more granular control is required. This is just to
make it easier to *start* a recurring event.

Once an event *has* a recurrence rule, the dropdown reverts to displaying the default base set
of recurrence options.

To disable this, configure the Scheduler's `EventEdit` feature with:

```javascript
useContextualRecurrenceRules : false
```

## Excel export only export events inside the current time axis

If you would like to always export all events, regardless whether they intersect the current time axis or not,
set the `includeEventsOutsideTimeAxis`

**Old code:**

```javascript
features : {
    // Exports only events intersecting current time axis
    excelExporter : true
},
```

**New code:**

```javascript
features : {
    excelExporter : {
        // Export all events always
        includeEventsOutsideTimeAxis : true
    }
},
```

## Removed eventBodyTemplate

With this release we removed the `eventBodyTemplate` function, which was deprecated in v5.6.2. It was originally ported 
over from our older line of products to ease migration, but it is redundant since an `eventRenderer` can accomplish the 
same result. By removing it we have simplified the codebase, and reduced confusion on where to put event bar 
customization code.

**Old code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    eventBodyTemplate : data => StringHelper.xss`
        <div class="b-sch-event-header">${data.headerText}</div>
        <div class="b-sch-event-footer">${data.footerText}</div>
    `,

    eventRenderer({ eventRecord, resourceRecord, renderData }) {
        return {
            headerText : DateHelper.format(eventRecord.startDate, 'HH:mm'),
            footerText : StringHelper.encodeHtml(eventRecord.name || '')
        };
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    eventRenderer({ eventRecord, resourceRecord, renderData }) {
        return `
            <div class="b-sch-event-header">${DateHelper.format(eventRecord.startDate, 'HH:mm')}</div>
            <div class="b-sch-event-footer">${StringHelper.encodeHtml(eventRecord.name || '')}</div>
        `;
    }
});
```

Or more efficiently using DomConfigs:

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    eventRenderer({ eventRecord, resourceRecord, renderData }) {
        return [
            {
                class : 'b-sch-event-header',
                text  : DateHelper.format(eventRecord.startDate, 'HH:mm')
            },
            {
                class : 'b-sch-event-footer',
                text  : eventRecord.name || ''
            }
        ];
    }
});
```

Note that in some edge cases the new appearance might not be identical to the old. For example if your dataset has icons
on the events, but your `eventBodyTemplate` did not render them, they might now be unexpectedly shown. Please review
your UI after upgrading to ensure it looks as expected.

## New location for `Core.util.helper.Point` class

The `Core.util.helper.Point` class was moved in v5.6.0 to solve circular module dependencies. It is now a named
(`Point`) export of the `Core.util.helper.Rectangle` module.

Changes are required if you are directly importing the class from sources:

**Old code:**

```javascript
import Point from 'path-to-lib/Core/helper/util/Point.js';
```

**New code:**

```javascript
import { Point } from 'path-to-lib/Core/helper/util/Rectangle.js';
```

Note: No changes required for importing from module or umd bundles.

## Milestone CSS

The CSS for milestones was slightly simplified in v5.6.0, thanks the conversion to use grid layout for event bars back 
in 5.0. If you use custom styling for milestones, you might need to update it

## `ScrollOptions` has been renamed to `BryntumScrollOptions`

If you use TypeScript in your application rename imported type `ScrollOptions` to `BryntumScrollOptions`.

**Old code:**

```typescript
import { ScrollOptions } from '@bryntum/scheduler'
```

**New code:**

```typescript
import { BryntumScrollOptions } from '@bryntum/scheduler'
```

## Restructured RowReorder feature

Internal development made it necessary in v5.5.9 to define a feature specifically for Scheduler 
`Grid.feature.RowReorder` -> `Scheduler.feature.RowReorder`

If you extended that feature to add some custom logic, you need change base class to the new one.

## EventCopyPaste was made asynchronous

The `EventCopyPaste` feature's `copyEvents` and `pasteEvents` was made asynchronous in v5.4.0. That made the 
`beforeCopy` and `beforePaste` events asynchronously preventable, and allowed for native Clipboard API support.

If your code relies on a copy or paste action to complete, you will need to wait for the promise to be resolved.

**Old code:**

```javascript
function copyPaste()
{
    scheduler.copyEvents();
    doSomethingElse();
    scheduler.pasteEvents();
    finishDoingSomethingElse();
}
```

**New code:**

```javascript
async function copyPaste()
{
    await scheduler.copyEvents();
    doSomethingElse();
    await scheduler.pasteEvents();
    finishDoingSomethingElse();
}
```

...or...

```javascript
function copyPaste()
{
    return scheduler.copyEvents().then(() => {
        doSomethingElse();
        scheduler.pasteEvents().then(() => {
            finishDoingSomethingElse();
            return true;
        });
    });
}
```

## The `getEvents()` function of `ResourceModel` was removed

It was deprecated in v5.36 and has now been removed. Use the `events` property instead.

**Old code:**

```javascript
const events = resource.getEvents();
```

**New code:**

```javascript
const { events } = resource;
```

## Angular View Engine wrappers for Angular 11 and older versions

In v5.3.3 a new `@bryntum/scheduler-angular-view` package designed to work with Angular 11 and older versions was added,
which use the View Engine for rendering. If you are using one of the legacy Angular versions, please follow these
steps to use the package:

Install the package using npm:

```shell
npm install @bryntum/scheduler-angular-view@6.0.0
```

Import the component in your Angular application:

```typescript
import { BryntumSchedulerComponent } from '@bryntum/scheduler-angular-view';
```

Do not forget to remove previously used `@bryntum/scheduler-angular` package which requires Angular 12 or newer version.

Please check [Angular integration guide](#Scheduler/guides/integration/angular/guide.md#ivy-and-view-engine-wrappers) for
additional information.

## Event style & color CSS changes

The CSS used to support `eventStyle` and `eventColor` was changed in v5.3.0 - instead of letting SASS generate CSS for 
each style and color combination it now uses internal CSS variables.

The upside of this change is that it removes thousands of lines of CSS (the unminified Scheduler specific CSS dropped
from almost 500kB down to 110kB), while also making it easier for us to add more colors and styles in the future.

The downside is that CSS variables does not allow for scaled (perceived change instead of absolute change) color
adjustments as SASS does, so the resulting colors are in some cases slightly different.

If your application uses the built-in styles and colors as is you should not need to adjust your styling, but if it uses
custom styles and colors for the events you might need to adjust the specificity of some selectors (we had to adjust
one demo out of the roughly 80 available for Scheduler).

## Localization update

`LocaleManager.registerLocale` was deprecated in 5.3.0 and has now been removed.
[LocaleHelper.publishLocale](#Core/localization/LocaleHelper#function-publishLocale-static) should be used instead.

**Old code:**

```javascript
LocaleManager.registerLocale('Es', {
    desc : 'Spanish', locale : {
        localeName : 'Es',
        localeDesc : 'Spanish',
        locale     : {
            /* localization */
        }
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
LocaleHelper.publishLocale({
    localeName : 'Es',
    localeDesc : 'Spanish',
    localeCode : 'es',
    /* localization */
});
```

`LocaleManager.extendLocale` was deprecated in 5.3.0 and has now been removed.
[LocaleManager.applyLocale](#Core/localization/LocaleManager#function-applyLocale) should be used instead.

**Old code:**

```javascript
LocaleManager.extendLocale('Es', {
    desc : 'Spanish', locale : {
        locale : {
            /* localization */
        }
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
LocaleManager.applyLocale({
    localeName : 'Es',
    localeDesc : 'Spanish',
    localeCode : 'es',
    /* localization */
});
```

Check our [localization guide](#Scheduler/guides/customization/localization.md#locales) for the details.

## Removed the `event` property of time range mouse events

It was deprecated in v5.3.0 and has now been removed, replaced with `domEvents` to reduce risk of confusion with Bryntum 
events and event records. Applies to the`timeRangeHeaderClick`, `timeRangeHeaderDblClick` and `timeRangeContextMenu`
events.

**Old code:**

```javascript
scheduler.on({
    timeRangeHeaderClick({ event }) {
        console.log(event);
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
scheduler.on({
    timeRangeHeaderClick({ domEvent }) {
        console.log(domEvent);
    }
});
```

## The `event` property of the EventDrag feature's events `beforeEventDrag` and `eventDragStart` was renamed

The EventDrag feature triggers `beforeEventDrag` and `eventDragStart` when dragging events in the Scheduler. In the
event data object the property previously named `event` was replaced by `domEvent` in v5.2.7.

Simply use the new property name instead:

**Old code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    listeners : {
        beforeEventDrag ({ eventRecord, event }){
            return event.ctrlKey
        }
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    listeners : {
        beforeEventDrag ({ eventRecord, domEvent }){
            return domEvent.ctrlKey
        }
    }
});
```

## Configurable handle sizes for the EventResize removed

The size of handle zones for resizing events is determined by CSS since v5.2.7. If you are using the `handleSize` or
`touchHandleSize` configs, those should be replaced by CSS rules.

## The highlightWeekends config of the NonWorkingTime feature was removed

Previoulsy deprecated in v5.2.0 for being superfluous, it has now been removed. Disabling the feature will yield the 
same result as the config did.

**Old code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    features : {
        nonWorkingTime : {
            highlightWeekends : false
        }
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
// To be able to toggle it at runtime:

const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    features : {
        nonWorkingTime : {
            disabled : true
        }
    }
});

// Or if you don't want to use the feature at all:

const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    features : {
        nonWorkingTime : false
    }
});
```

## SchedulerDatePicker's `events` property removed

The `events` config in `SchedulerDatePicker` was renamed to `showEvents` in v5.1.4. The `events` property is now no
longer available.

**Old code:**

 ```javascript
 new SchedulerDatePicker({
    events : 'count'
    ...
})
 ```

**New code:**

```javascript
new SchedulerDatePicker({
   showEvents : 'count'
   ...
})
```

## `scrollResourceEventIntoView` and `scrollAssignmentIntoView` function signatures changed

The 3rd param of the `scrollResourceEventIntoView` was deprecated in v5.1.4 and is now no longer available.
The 2nd param of the `scrollAssignmentIntoView` was also deprecated in v5.1.4 and is no longer available.

**Old code:**

```javascript
scheduler.scrollResourceEventIntoView(resourceRecord, eventRecord, null, { block : start });
```

**New code:**

```javascript
scheduler.scrollResourceEventIntoView(resourceRecord, eventRecord, { block : start });
```

## New module bundle for Angular

Bryntum Scheduler is since v5.1.0 delivered with a new ES Module bundle without WebComponents. This was done to avoid
conflicts with Angular which also uses WebComponents for applications.

Angular wrappers use `scheduler.module.js` bundle in favor of removed `scheduler.lite.umd.js` one.

Your Angular applications should be upgraded to use the new `scheduler.module.js` bundle which is set as `main` for
`@bryntum/scheduler` NPM package.

Replace all application imports from Bryntum packages as shown below:

**Old code:**

```javascript
import { Scheduler } from '@bryntum/scheduler/scheduler.lite.umd.js';
```

**New code:**

```javascript
import { Scheduler } from '@bryntum/scheduler';
```

## New module bundle with WebComponents

Bryntum Scheduler is since v5.1.0 delivered with a new `grid.wc.module.js` ES Module bundle with WebComponents.

Your applications which use WebComponents and modules bundle should be upgraded to import from new
`scheduler.wc.module.js` instead of `scheduler.module.js`.

## Dependencies feature refactored, part #1

The `draw()`, `drawDependency()`, `getConnectorEndSide()`, `getConnectorStartSide()`, `refreshDependency()` and
`releaseDependency()` functions on the `Dependencies` feature has mistakenly been public ever since the feature was
created. Since the refactoring in v5.1.0 they are no longer available.

Under normal circumstances you should never have to do draw/refresh dependencies manually, if you have to do that it is
likely a bug that we would appreciate a report of. After the refactoring the only available option to draw/refresh is by
calling: `scheduler.features.dependencies.refresh()`.

## Dependencies feature refactored, part #2 - `drawForEvent()` not needed v5.1.0

As a result of a large refactoring of the `Dependencies` feature the `drawForEvent()` fn was deprecated in v5.1.0 and 
has now been removed.

**Old code:**

```javascript
//... some action
scheduler.features.dependencies.drawForEvent(scheduler.eventStore.first);
```

**New code:**

```javascript
//... some action
```

## EventCopyPaste event property removal

The events triggered by the `EventCopyPaste` feature (`beforeCopy`, `beforePaste`) now passes both `eventRecords` and
`assignmentsRecords`. The old `records` param was because of this deprecated in v5.0.4 and has now been removed. Please 
adjust your code accordingly.

**Old code:**

```javascript
scheduler.on({
    beforeCopy({ records }) {
        console.log(records.map(r => r.name).join(', '));
    }
})
```

**New code:**

```javascript
scheduler.on({
    beforeCopy({ eventRecords }) {
        console.log(eventRecords.map(r => r.name).join(', '));
    }
})
```

## Validating CrudManager responses by default

The `validateResponse` flag on CrudManager was changed in v5.0.3 to default to `true`. When enabled, it validates 
CrudManager responses from the backend and outputs a message on console if the format isn't valid. This is helpful 
during the development phase, but can be turned off in production:

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
   crudManager : {
       // Turn response validation off
       validateResponse : false,
       ...
   } 
});
```

## New Vue wrapper config option `relayStoreEvents`

This option was introduced in v5.0.3 to allow relaying of store events to the Scheduler instance. It defaults to `false` 
(no events relayed) which when introduced changed the default behavior so if your application relies on relayed events, 
configure it as `true`.

Example:

```html
<bryntum-scheduler
    :relayStoreEvents="true"
>
```

The config option applies to both Vue 2 and Vue 3.

## horizontalEventSorterFn() renamed to overlappingEventSorter()

Renamed in v5.0.0 since the old name was misleading, the function is called to sort overlapping events vertically. The
functionality remains the same, only the name changed. If you are using it, you should rename the usages in your code:

**Old code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    horizontalEventSorterFn(a, b) {
        // Your custom logic here
    }
})
```

**New code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    overlappingEventSorter(a, b) {
        // Your custom logic here
    }
})
```

## React wrappers now use module bundle

Prior to v5.0.0 the React wrappers used the UMD bundle to import required classes:

**Old code:**

```javascript
import { EventModel } from '@bryntum/scheduler/scheduler.umd.js';
```

UMD bundle is not used anymore in the wrappers so the import line in the above code needs to be changed:

**New code:**

```javascript
import { EventModel } from '@bryntum/scheduler';
```

Imports from `@bryntum/scheduler-react` remain same.

## Argument order of TimeSpan.shift() corrected

The documented order of the arguments of `TimeSpan.shift()` has been incorrect since v2.0.0. Docs have been updated to 
reflect the correct order (`amount, unit`, not `unit, amount`) and the code that handled the incorrect order has been 
removed. If you are using this method with the incorrect order (`unit, amount`) you should change it to the correct
order (`amount, unit`):

**Old code:**

```javascript
eventRecord.shift('d', 1);
```

**New code:**

```javascript
eventRecord.shift(1, 'd');
```

## Store now defaults to use raw data for remotely loaded data

The `useRawData` setting on `Store` is now enabled by default when data is loaded remotely using an `AjaxStore` or a
`CrudManager`, but with all sub-settings disabled. This will boost load performance slightly, by not cloning the 
incoming data objects.

If you want to restore the previous behavior, you can set `useRawData : false` on the store:

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    eventStore : {
        useRawData : false
    }
});
```

Or for all project stores:

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    project : {
        useRawData : false
    }
});
```

## Layout locked by default during event resize & drag create

Previously apps had to opt in to locking the layout during event resizing and during drag creation, but now it is locked 
by default. If you want to opt out, you can set `lockLayout : false` on the specific feature:

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    features : {
        eventDragCreate : {
            lockLayout : false
        },
        eventResize : {
            lockLayout : false
        }
    }
});
```

## Start/end parameters are now passed by default

Scheduler now by default passes the time axis start & end dates as parameters to fetch requests (from the `EventStore`
or from the `CrudManager`). If you want to opt out, you can set the `passStartEndParameters` to `false`:

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    passStartEndParameters : false
});
```

## Automatic refresh when resuming refresh

When calling `Scheduler.resumeRefresh()` the scheduler will now automatically refresh (if it leads to refresh no longer
being suspended) unless you pass `false` as the argument:

```javascript
scheduler.suspendRefresh();

// A lot of changes that would cause the UI to refresh
// ...

scheduler.resumeRefresh(false);
// UI not refreshed here...
```

## Removed fetchOptions and requestConfig from CrudManager.transport

The previously (in v5.0.0) deprecated `fetchOptions` and `requestConfig` properties of `CrudManager.transport.load` and
`CrudManager.transport.sync` were removed in v6.0.0. Any settings passed in those properties can instead be passed 
directly on the upper level (in the `load` or `sync` configuration objects). 

**Old code:**

```javascript
const crudManager = new CrudManager({
    transport : {
        load : {
            fetchOptions : {
                credentials : 'include'
            }
        },
        sync : {
            requestConfig : {
                credentials : 'include'
            }
        }
    }
});
```

**New code:**

```javascript
const crudManager = new CrudManager({
    transport : {
        load : {
            credentials : 'include'
        },
        sync : {
            credentials : 'include'
        }
    }
});
```

## EventDrag `copyKey` property default value changed from `SHIFT` to OS default

The `copyKey` property of the EventDrag feature now defaults to the default copy key of the native OS
(Meta-key for Mac and Ctrl for Windows).

**Old code:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    features : {
        eventDrag : true // copyKey value is `SHIFT` by default
    }
});
```

**New code to keep using SHIFT as copyKey value:**

```javascript
const scheduler = new Scheduler({
    features : {
        eventDrag : {
            copyKey : 'SHIFT'
        }
    }
});
```


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2025-10-06 7:34:50</p>