# What's new in Scheduler v6.0.0

## Multi-Event resize

The `EventResize` feature now allows user to simultaneously resize multiple selected events. To disable this feature
set [resizeSelected](##Scheduler/feature/EventResize#config-resizeSelected) to `false`.

## LockRows feature

This feature allows resources which satisfy a certain condition to be locked at the top of the scheduler.

By default the condition is that a certain named field have a truthy value. The field which decides
this status defaults to `'fixed'`, but that is configurable using the `fieldName` property.

When used with `fieldName`, the `CellMenu` context menu appears with an extra option to toggle the value of
that field in the contextual record. For more granular control, use the `filterFn` to decide which records
should be locked.

This feature is **disabled** by default.

<div class="external-example" data-file="Scheduler/feature/LockRows.js"></div>

## Lazy data loading (infinite scroll)

[Stores](#Core/data/Store) now has support for lazy loading of data. In the Scheduler this means it is possible to
continuously load resources and events (and more) when they scroll into view, instead of loading the complete datasets
at once.

Activating lazy loading is either done by configuring each Scheduler store separately, or configuring the
[CrudManager](#Scheduler/data/CrudManager) to take care of it.

Here is an example of how to configure the stores separately (the stores communicates with the API by the use of the
built-in [AjaxStore](#Core/data/AjaxStore) functionality).

```javascript
new Scheduler({
    resourceStore : {
        // This will create an AjaxStore
        readUrl  : 'backend/resources/read',
        // This will activate the lazy load functionality
        lazyLoad : true,
        // This will load the Store initially upon creation
        autoLoad : true
    },
    eventStore : {
        // This will create an AjaxStore
        readUrl  : 'backend/events/read',
        // This will activate the lazy load functionality
        lazyLoad : true
    }
});
```

And here is an example of how to do it using the [CrudManager](#Scheduler/data/CrudManager).

```javascript
new Scheduler({
    crudManager : {
        loadUrl  : 'backend/events/read',
        // This will activate the lazy load functionality
        lazyLoad : true,
        // This will initiate the first load upon creation
        autoLoad : true,
    }
});
```
The backend will receive a request with `startIndex` and `count` params that refers to which resources to load. The
params will also include a `startDate` and an `endDate` that refers to which events (or other type of data) to load (for
the resource range). Implement these params in your data queries to only return this range of records.

It is also possible to not use [AjaxStore's](#Core/data/AjaxStore) nor the
[CrudManager](#Scheduler/data/CrudManager). In these cases you need to do more configuration. For a detailed
explanation of the lazy load functionality, please read our [guide](#Grid/guides/data/lazyloading.md). There is also a
new [demo](https://bryntum.com/products/scheduler/examples/infinite-scroll/) that uses an express.js backend to
demonstrate the functionality.


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2025-10-06 7:34:50</p>